"The Prophecy"

Our story begins.  The Hero has risen.  The hero of Baag-Ril has killed the emporer.  The capital, Medena, is ruined and in chaos.  Baag-Ril, as well, has suffered greatly.  The civil war has claimed roughly half its population - including more than 75% of its of young men.  In dire need to labor and material to rebuild and filled with ambition from the prophecy, the Temple sends emissaries to the outlying areas demanding surrender to rule under Baag-Ril and tribute.  The prophecy is well-known, compliance is virtually universal.  The people offer no resistance.  Still, however, repairing the damage and building an army conquer Mist requires more than the immediate vicinity can offer.  The temple sends its emissaries further out.  One arrives in the small city, Tash.

Our opening scene begins with that emissary's arrival.  He meets a group of serfs in the field.  They are of such lowly station they don't even have names.  A large one we come to know as "Brother" offers the emissary a hearty greeting.  The emissary scoffs at being addressed directly by such a lowly individual and demands to speak with somene 'far more important'.  Brother tells him to "keep walking", the 'important people ' are in the city-proper.  The emissary threatens Brother and his lot in the field for their insolence, then continues on his way.  The serf jabber a little and our scene closes.

That evening, 3 armed soldiers and the emissary approach the serfs.  The emissary declares that Baag-Ril wants this whole group for the mines, Brother first.  Brother demands an explaination, and the soldiers explain that Tash has elected to accept surrender.  10% of its people are to be handed over to Baag-Ril as slaves.

Brother laughs.  He says he'd prefer death.  As the soldier attempt to force him into shackles, another serf - our main character - grabs a pitchfork and stabs one of the soldiers in the back.  Distracted and striken, a second soldier allows Brother to take his sword and kill him with it.  3 more serfs join the fray and the remaining soldier and emissary find themselves outmatched.  As the 5 serfs advance, a sixth one stops them and volunteers as a slave - serfdom and slavery aren't vastly different and after spending a lifetime under the emperor's rule, this assignment may still be an improvement.  Plus the terms of surrender were clear and Tash couldn't possibly hold back the Hero.  The prophecy is unmistakable - resistance to Baag-Ril will be annihilated.  Those who didn't resist follow him.

As they make the march back to town to gather what few possession they own, the emissary demands of the soldier that the 5 be forced into slavery explicitly because of their resistance, but the 5 make it rather plain to both the soldier and the emissary that furth discussion of the topic will likely lead to their deaths.  The emissary leaves, enraged, to tend transporting the new slaves to Baag-Ril and to seek further assistance with the malcontents.  Realizing their acts have made them criminals, Brother, our main character, and the three others gather what belongings they can carry and flee to the woods nearby.

Once in the woods, the fugitives stop and prepare a defense.  They have a pitchfork, the soldier's sword, a bow, a wood-cutting axe, a pickaxe, and a few arrows between them [equipment tutorial].  Lucky for the serfs, as Brother points out, the town guard consists of a mere 15 soldiers - 2 of whom were already killed.  The town could only afford to send a few after them.  Further, while they spent some time training, none have any real combat experience and a lifetime of hard labor likely makes the serfs quite strong.  They may even have an advantage.

[A Step Ahead of the Law]
3 Soldiers approach.  As the skirmish ensues [story battle], one soldier rushes ahead of the other two, charging the serfs, shouting that his sister was among those pressed into servitude in their place.  His emotional outburst and wreckless charge offers the serfs a significant tactical advantage as he is way out of position and should allow them to overcome the attackers with ease.  [This battle should include a brief tutorial (which the player should be able to skip) of combat basics.  While this game is intended to be somewhat complex, this tutorial should be fairly straight forward.]

Following the battle, the fugitives make camp.  Upon waking, they are met by a necromancer.  After a brief, confrontational dialog, it is determined that the necromancer means only to help the fugitives - they're both enemies of the Temple now.  [The dialog indicates some deviation from the standard fantasy tropes regarding necromancy and necromancers.  First, it is at least declared that necromancers are, in fact, often excellent healers and that the undead retain their souls] The necromancer offers our main character simple magic training - one spell of his choice from a book called 'Basic Patterns of Magic' [the only book a 'recruit' may learn spells from -- Spell Acquisition Tutorial, Combat Magic Tutorial].  It's fairly easy.  While few in the world are dedicated mages, most anyone with any sort of education knows at least a spell or two, usually in some way related to their profession.  In parting, he leaves a copy of "Low Elemental Magic" with them.  He also suggests that with a little practice, our main character will be able to teach his magic to his companions and will be able to learn new spells either by studying books or through the direct tutelage of others who've mastered a particular pattern.  The necromancer politely bids them fairwell and leaves.

After he leaves, the fugitives hold a quick huddle.  They have little food, no shelter from the elements, limited weaponry, no armor or clothing beyond their current garb, no safe place to keep their newly-acquired book, not even a pile of firewood.  Of their needs, they decide food and shelter are the most pressing.  Given their surroundings, these are also the most readily available.

[The player must choose which mission to take first - [The Hunt] or [A Pile of Sticks]]

[The Hunt]
Lacking a cart, the team's carrying capacity is limited.  A cart, however, is not likely to become available without either professional help or violence against the innocent.  While stalking deer, the party encounters a few vrel [large, aggressive, purely carnivorous boar-like creatures], chasing the same prey.  The party engages the vrel.  Once the vrel have been slain, the party carries the carcasses back to camp [Food And Supplies Tutorial].

[A Pile of Sticks]
Before the mission begins, [Resource Sighting and Gathering Tutorial], [Equipment and Item Trading Tutorial].  The mission begins without event.  The party moves around, gathering lumber.  Upon collection of a nearly-full stock of lumber, the party identifies a fadeleaf tree.  The grain of fadeleaf is an ideal conduit for magic.  The party may elect to leave, continue collecting pine, or harvest the fadeleaf.  If the party leaves, they do so without event, returning to camp with their haul of lumber.  If they stay, they encounter 3 goblin refugees.

The goblins are fleeing the Hero's purge.  Gnoraga faced similar demands to Tash.  The goblins are confrontational.  The 'expected' path is for our hero to reason with the goblins, ultimately explaining that the fugitives are in the same boat.  However, the option to fight the goblins also exists.  Some basic loot is available from the goblins either way - a few sets of leather armor, a leather buckler, a shortbow, a javelin, and a wand enchanted with a weakened 'kinetikos' (A spell from Basic Patterns).  If the player elects not to kill to goblins, they gain 2 generic goblins and Korbash, woodshaper of Gnoraga.  Though not a proper fletcher or bowyer, Korbash can wands, staves, wooden spears, and a number of other useful things.  Korbash has the capacity to create enchantable staves.  If Korbash is in the party when they return to camp [Woodshaping tutorial],[Enchanting Tutorial].

After both missions are complete, at least one character should be available for promotion [Promotion Tutorial].
